SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Guide for Snipo

This document outlines security considerations and best practices for deploying Snipo.

## Security Model

Snipo is designed as a **local-first, self-hosted** application. The security model assumes:

1. **Single-user deployment** - One master password protects all data
2. **Local network or VPN access** - Not exposed directly to the internet
3. **No CDN dependencies** - All assets served locally to prevent supply chain attacks

## Current Security Features

### Authentication
- **Master password** hashed at startup with Argon2id (OWASP recommended parameters)
- **Progressive login delays** - exponential backoff after failed attempts (1s, 2s, 4s, 8s, 16s, 30s max)
- **Session tokens** hashed with SHA256 before database storage
- **Secure cookies**: `HttpOnly`, `Secure`, `SameSite=Strict`
- **Session expiration** with automatic cleanup
- **API tokens** with SHA256 hashing and optional expiration
- **Rate limiting** on authentication endpoints (configurable)
- **Session secret warning** - logs warning if `SNIPO_SESSION_SECRET` not explicitly set

### HTTP Security Headers
- `Content-Security-Policy` - Restricts resource loading to same-origin
- `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff` - Prevents MIME sniffing
- `X-Frame-Options: DENY` - Prevents clickjacking
- `X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block` - Legacy XSS protection
- `Strict-Transport-Security` - Enforces HTTPS
- `Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin`
- `Permissions-Policy` - Disables camera, microphone, geolocation

### Input Validation
- JSON request body size limits (2MB max)
- Content size limits (1MB per file)
- Tag name validation (alphanumeric, underscores, hyphens)
- Language allowlist validation

### Database Security
- SQLite with foreign key constraints enabled
- Parameterized queries (SQL injection protection)
- WAL mode for crash recovery

## Configuration Best Practices

### Environment Variables

```bash
# OPTION 1 (Recommended): Use pre-hashed password
# Generate hash with: ./snipo hash-password your-password
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=$argon2id$base64salt$base64hash

# OPTION 2: Plain text password (backward compatible, less secure)
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD=your-very-secure-password-here

# REQUIRED: Random session secret (generate with: openssl rand -hex 32)
SNIPO_SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32)

# Rate limiting (adjust based on expected usage)
SNIPO_RATE_LIMIT=100
SNIPO_RATE_WINDOW=1m

# Only enable if behind a trusted reverse proxy (nginx, traefik, etc.)
SNIPO_TRUST_PROXY=false
```

**Password Security Best Practices:**

1. **Use hashed passwords** - Generate with `./snipo hash-password` and set `SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH`
2. **Strong passwords** - Minimum 12 characters with mixed case, numbers, and symbols
3. **Never commit plain passwords** - If using plain text, use environment variables or secrets management
4. **Rotate regularly** - Change passwords periodically, especially after potential exposure

**Generating Password Hashes:**

```bash
# Using binary
./snipo hash-password

# Using Docker
docker run --rm ghcr.io/mohamedelashri/snipo:latest hash-password

# With password as argument (less secure, visible in shell history)
./snipo hash-password "your-password"
```

The hash uses Argon2id with OWASP-recommended parameters (memory: 64MB, iterations: 1, parallelism: 4).

**Hash Format:** `$argon2id$base64salt$base64hash`

**Migration from Plain Text:**

```bash
# 1. Generate hash for current password
./snipo hash-password "current-password"

# 2. Update environment variable
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=$argon2id$...

# 3. Remove plain password (optional, hash takes precedence)
# unset SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD

# 4. Restart service
```

**Why Use Hashed Passwords:**
- Passwords never visible in config files, logs, or process listings
- Safer for version control (even with encrypted hashes)
- Reduces exposure if configs are accidentally leaked
- Backward compatible (plain passwords still supported)

**Important Notes:**
- Either `SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD` or `SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH` is required
- If both are set, the hash takes precedence
- Hash format is validated at startup (must start with `$argon2id$`)
- Use secrets management (Docker Secrets, Vault) in production
- Protect config files with appropriate permissions (e.g., `chmod 600 .env`)

## Authentication Modes

Snipo offers three authentication modes to balance security and usability for different deployment scenarios:

### Mode 1: Full Authentication (Default)

**Standard mode with login page and password protection.**

```bash
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD=your-secure-password
# or (recommended)
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=$argon2id$base64salt$base64hash
SNIPO_SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32)
```

**Features:**
- Login page required to access web UI
- Session-based authentication for all operations
- **API token operations always require password verification** (additional security layer)
- All admin operations require authentication

**Security Model:**
- Login required to access UI and API
- Session authentication for read/write operations
- **Master password required** for creating API tokens (even with valid session)
- **Master password required** for deleting API tokens (even with valid session)

**Use when:**
- Default deployment scenario
- Public internet exposure (behind HTTPS reverse proxy)
- Standard security requirements
- Maximum security needed

### Mode 2: Login Disabled (Settings Option)

**Hide login page while maintaining API password protection for admin operations.**

**Configuration:**
1. Log in to your Snipo instance
2. Navigate to Settings → General
3. Enable "Disable Login Page"

**How it works:**
- Web UI is accessible without login page
- Login page redirects to home
- All standard operations work without authentication
- **API token operations always require password verification**

**Security characteristics:**
- Web UI access:  No session required
- API read/write operations:  No session required  
- API token creation: ❌ **Always requires password** (security best practice)
- API token deletion: ❌ **Always requires password** (security best practice)
- Settings changes:  No session required
- Backup/restore:  No session required

**Enhanced Security:**
Even in this mode, API token management operations (create/delete) **always require the master password**. This provides:
- Protection against session hijacking
- Defense against XSS attacks
- Additional security layer for sensitive operations
- Prevention of unauthorized token management

**Use when:**
- Deployed on private networks (Tailscale, WireGuard, VPN)
- Trusted local environments
- You want easy access but protected admin features
- Primary API token usage with controlled token creation

**Example workflow:**

```bash
# 1. Create API token (password required for security)
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/tokens \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name":"My Token",
    "permissions":"admin",
    "password":"your-secure-password"
  }'

# Response includes the token (save it securely)
# {"token":"snipo_...",...}

# 2. Use API token for all operations (no password needed)
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/snippets \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <api-token>"

# 3. Delete token (password required for security)
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8080/api/v1/tokens/1 \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"password":"your-secure-password"}'
```

**Benefits:**
- No login friction for trusted environments
- Easy access for reading and managing snippets
- **Strong security for API token operations** (password always required)
- Protection against unauthorized token creation/deletion
- Defense-in-depth: even if session is compromised, tokens are protected
- Suitable for personal networks, VPNs, and auth proxy deployments
- Balances convenience with security

### Mode 3: Authentication Completely Disabled

⚠️ **CRITICAL SECURITY CONSIDERATION**

**Disable all authentication via environment variable.**

```bash
SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true
# Password variables not required when auth is disabled
```

**Security characteristics:**
- Web UI access:  No authentication
- All API operations:  No authentication
- Token creation:  **No password verification** (⚠️ bypassed)
- Token deletion:  **No password verification** (⚠️ bypassed)
- Settings changes:  No authentication
- Admin operations:  No authentication

**Critical Difference from Mode 2:**
- Mode 2: Password **still required** for token operations
- Mode 3: Password requirement **completely bypassed**
- Use Mode 3 only when external authentication handles all access control
**Use ONLY when:**

1. **Behind Authentication Proxy** - When using external authentication layers:
   - [Authelia](https://www.authelia.com/)
   - [OAuth2 Proxy](https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/)
   - [Cloudflare Access](https://www.cloudflare.com/products/zero-trust/access/)
   - NGINX with `auth_request`
   - Traefik with ForwardAuth
   - etc.

2. **Isolated Local Environment** - Completely offline, no network access

3. **Development/Testing** - Local development only, never in production

**Configuration:**

```bash
# In .env or environment
SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true

# Password variables are ignored when auth is disabled
# SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD not required
# SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH not required
```

**Security Implications:**

- All authentication checks are bypassed
- No login required
- All API endpoints are accessible without credentials
- No rate limiting on authentication
- **Complete trust** in external authentication layer
- Direct exposure to internet is **extremely dangerous**

### Deployment Examples

**Example 1: Docker with Authelia**

```yaml
services:
  authelia:
    image: authelia/authelia:latest
    volumes:
      - ./authelia-config:/config
    networks:
      - auth-network

  snipo:
    image: ghcr.io/mohamedelashri/snipo:latest
    environment:
      - SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true  # Auth handled by Authelia
    networks:
      - auth-network
    # Snipo is NOT exposed directly to internet

  nginx:
    image: nginx:alpine
    ports:
      - "443:443"
    volumes:
      - ./nginx.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf
    networks:
      - auth-network
```

**Example 2: Nginx with auth_request**

```nginx
location /auth {
    internal;
    proxy_pass http://authelia:9091/api/verify;
    proxy_set_header X-Original-URL $scheme://$http_host$request_uri;
}

location / {
    auth_request /auth;
    proxy_pass http://snipo:8080;
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
}
```

### Security Checklist for Disabled Auth

When using `SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true`, verify:

- [ ] External authentication layer is properly configured
- [ ] Snipo is **NOT** directly accessible from the internet
- [ ] All traffic passes through authentication proxy
- [ ] Authentication proxy is configured with strict policies
- [ ] Network isolation is in place (Docker networks, VPNs)
- [ ] Logs are monitored for unauthorized access attempts
- [ ] Backup authentication layer exists (defense in depth)
- [ ] Regular security audits of authentication setup

### Reverting to Standard Authentication

To re-enable authentication:

```bash
# 1. Remove or set to false
SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=false
# or just remove the variable entirely

# 2. Set password
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=$argon2id$...
# or
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD=your-secure-password

# 3. Restart
docker compose restart snipo
```

### Reverse Proxy Configuration

If deploying behind a reverse proxy:

1. Set `SNIPO_TRUST_PROXY=true` to trust `X-Forwarded-For` headers
2. Configure your proxy to set proper headers:

**Nginx example:**
```nginx
location / {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
}
```

**Traefik example:**
```yaml
http:
  middlewares:
    secure-headers:
      headers:
        forceSTSHeader: true
        stsSeconds: 31536000
```

### Docker Security

The Docker image runs as non-root user (`snipo`, UID 1000):

```yaml
services:
  snipo:
    image: ghcr.io/mohamedelashri/snipo:latest
    security_opt:
      - no-new-privileges:true
    read_only: true
    tmpfs:
      - /tmp
    volumes:
      - snipo_data:/data
```

## Known Limitations

### CSP Relaxations
The Content Security Policy includes:
- `'unsafe-inline'` for styles (required for dynamic styling)
- `'unsafe-eval'` for scripts (required for Alpine.js)

These are necessary for the current frontend stack but reduce XSS protection. The plan is to migrate to a more secure frontend stack in the future.

### Single-User Model
- No role-based access control
- All authenticated users have full access
- Password changes are in-memory only (reset on restart)

## Dependency Management

### Go Dependencies
All dependencies are vendored and version-pinned in `go.mod`:

| Package | Version | Purpose |
|---------|---------|---------|
| `go-chi/chi` | v5.1.0 | HTTP router |
| `golang.org/x/crypto` | v0.28.0 | Argon2id password hashing |
| `modernc.org/sqlite` | v1.33.1 | Pure-Go SQLite driver |
| `aws-sdk-go-v2` | v1.40.1 | S3 backup support |

### Frontend Dependencies (Vendored)
All frontend assets are served locally from `/static/vendor/`:

| Library | Version | File |
|---------|---------|------|
| Alpine.js | 3.x | `alpine.min.js` |
| htmx | 2.x | `htmx.min.js` |
| Ace Editor | 5.x | `ace.js` |
| Prism.js | 1.x | `prism.min.js` |
| Pico CSS | 2.x | `pico.min.css` |
| Fira Code | - | `FiraCode-*.woff2` |

### Updating Dependencies

**Go dependencies:**
```bash
# Check for updates
go list -u -m all

# Update all dependencies
go get -u ./...
go mod tidy

# Update specific package
go get -u golang.org/x/crypto@latest
```

**Frontend dependencies:**
Download new versions and replace files in `internal/web/static/vendor/`:

```bash
# Example: Update Alpine.js
curl -o internal/web/static/vendor/js/alpine.min.js \
  https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/alpinejs@3/dist/cdn.min.js
```

## Security Checklist

### Standard Deployment
- [ ] Use hashed password (`SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH`) instead of plain text
- [ ] Set strong master password (12+ characters, mixed case, numbers, symbols)
- [ ] Generate random session secret with `openssl rand -hex 32`
- [ ] Configure rate limiting appropriately
- [ ] Use HTTPS in production (via reverse proxy)
- [ ] Set `SNIPO_TRUST_PROXY=false` unless behind trusted proxy
- [ ] Restrict network access (firewall/VPN)
- [ ] Protect config files with proper permissions (`chmod 600 .env`)
- [ ] Use secrets management in production (Docker Secrets, Vault, etc.)
- [ ] Regular backups with encryption enabled
- [ ] Keep dependencies updated

### When Using Disabled Auth (`SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true`)
- [ ] Authentication proxy is properly configured and tested
- [ ] Snipo is NOT directly accessible from internet
- [ ] Network isolation is enforced (Docker networks, firewalls)
- [ ] All traffic must pass through authentication layer
- [ ] Monitoring and logging are in place
- [ ] Regular security audits of authentication setup
- [ ] Understand and accept the security implications

## Reporting Security Issues

If you discover a security vulnerability, please report it privately via GitHub Security Advisories or email. Do not create public issues for security vulnerabilities.

Commit message:

docs: Add Docker Compose warning for Argon2id hash variable substitution

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Guide for Snipo

This document outlines security considerations and best practices for deploying Snipo.

## Security Model

Snipo is designed as a **local-first, self-hosted** application. The security model assumes:

1. **Single-user deployment** - One master password protects all data
2. **Local network or VPN access** - Not exposed directly to the internet
3. **No CDN dependencies** - All assets served locally to prevent supply chain attacks

## Current Security Features

### Authentication
- **Master password** hashed at startup with Argon2id (OWASP recommended parameters)
- **Progressive login delays** - exponential backoff after failed attempts (1s, 2s, 4s, 8s, 16s, 30s max)
- **Session tokens** hashed with SHA256 before database storage
- **Secure cookies**: `HttpOnly`, `Secure`, `SameSite=Strict`
- **Session expiration** with automatic cleanup
- **API tokens** with SHA256 hashing and optional expiration
- **Rate limiting** on authentication endpoints (configurable)
- **Session secret warning** - logs warning if `SNIPO_SESSION_SECRET` not explicitly set

### HTTP Security Headers
- `Content-Security-Policy` - Restricts resource loading to same-origin
- `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff` - Prevents MIME sniffing
- `X-Frame-Options: DENY` - Prevents clickjacking
- `X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block` - Legacy XSS protection
- `Strict-Transport-Security` - Enforces HTTPS
- `Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin`
- `Permissions-Policy` - Disables camera, microphone, geolocation

### Input Validation
- JSON request body size limits (2MB max)
- Content size limits (1MB per file)
- Tag name validation (alphanumeric, underscores, hyphens)
- Language allowlist validation

### Database Security
- SQLite with foreign key constraints enabled
- Parameterized queries (SQL injection protection)
- WAL mode for crash recovery

## Configuration Best Practices

### Environment Variables

```bash
# OPTION 1 (Recommended): Use pre-hashed password
# Generate hash with: ./snipo hash-password your-password
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=$argon2id$base64salt$base64hash

# OPTION 2: Plain text password (backward compatible, less secure)
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD=your-very-secure-password-here

# REQUIRED: Random session secret (generate with: openssl rand -hex 32)
SNIPO_SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32)

# Rate limiting (adjust based on expected usage)
SNIPO_RATE_LIMIT=100
SNIPO_RATE_WINDOW=1m

# Only enable if behind a trusted reverse proxy (nginx, traefik, etc.)
SNIPO_TRUST_PROXY=false
```

> **Docker Compose Warning**: When using `SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH` in docker-compose.yml, the `$` characters in Argon2id hashes will be interpreted as variable substitution. Either:
> - Use double dollar signs: `$$argon2id$$base64salt$$base64hash`
> - Quote the value: `"SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=$argon2id$base64salt$base64hash"`
> - Use a `.env` file and reference it: `SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=${SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH}`

**Password Security Best Practices:**

1. **Use hashed passwords** - Generate with `./snipo hash-password` and set `SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH`
2. **Strong passwords** - Minimum 12 characters with mixed case, numbers, and symbols
3. **Never commit plain passwords** - If using plain text, use environment variables or secrets management
4. **Rotate regularly** - Change passwords periodically, especially after potential exposure

**Generating Password Hashes:**

```bash
# Using binary
./snipo hash-password

# Using Docker
docker run --rm ghcr.io/mohamedelashri/snipo:latest hash-password

# With password as argument (less secure, visible in shell history)
./snipo hash-password "your-password"
```

The hash uses Argon2id with OWASP-recommended parameters (memory: 64MB, iterations: 1, parallelism: 4).

**Hash Format:** `$argon2id$base64salt$base64hash`

**Migration from Plain Text:**

```bash
# 1. Generate hash for current password
./snipo hash-password "current-password"

# 2. Update environment variable
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=$argon2id$...

# 3. Remove plain password (optional, hash takes precedence)
# unset SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD

# 4. Restart service
```

**Why Use Hashed Passwords:**
- Passwords never visible in config files, logs, or process listings
- Safer for version control (even with encrypted hashes)
- Reduces exposure if configs are accidentally leaked
- Backward compatible (plain passwords still supported)

**Important Notes:**
- Either `SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD` or `SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH` is required
- If both are set, the hash takes precedence
- Hash format is validated at startup (must start with `$argon2id$`)
- Use secrets management (Docker Secrets, Vault) in production
- Protect config files with appropriate permissions (e.g., `chmod 600 .env`)

## Authentication Modes

Snipo offers three authentication modes to balance security and usability for different deployment scenarios:

### Mode 1: Full Authentication (Default)

**Standard mode with login page and password protection.**

```bash
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD=your-secure-password
# or (recommended)
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=$argon2id$base64salt$base64hash
SNIPO_SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32)
```

**Features:**
- Login page required to access web UI
- Session-based authentication for all operations
- **API token operations always require password verification** (additional security layer)
- All admin operations require authentication

**Security Model:**
- Login required to access UI and API
- Session authentication for read/write operations
- **Master password required** for creating API tokens (even with valid session)
- **Master password required** for deleting API tokens (even with valid session)

**Use when:**
- Default deployment scenario
- Public internet exposure (behind HTTPS reverse proxy)
- Standard security requirements
- Maximum security needed

### Mode 2: Login Disabled (Settings Option)

**Hide login page while maintaining API password protection for admin operations.**

**Configuration:**
1. Log in to your Snipo instance
2. Navigate to Settings → General
3. Enable "Disable Login Page"

**How it works:**
- Web UI is accessible without login page
- Login page redirects to home
- All standard operations work without authentication
- **API token operations always require password verification**

**Security characteristics:**
- Web UI access:  No session required
- API read/write operations:  No session required  
- API token creation: ❌ **Always requires password** (security best practice)
- API token deletion: ❌ **Always requires password** (security best practice)
- Settings changes:  No session required
- Backup/restore:  No session required

**Enhanced Security:**
Even in this mode, API token management operations (create/delete) **always require the master password**. This provides:
- Protection against session hijacking
- Defense against XSS attacks
- Additional security layer for sensitive operations
- Prevention of unauthorized token management

**Use when:**
- Deployed on private networks (Tailscale, WireGuard, VPN)
- Trusted local environments
- You want easy access but protected admin features
- Primary API token usage with controlled token creation

**Example workflow:**

```bash
# 1. Create API token (password required for security)
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1/tokens \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name":"My Token",
    "permissions":"admin",
    "password":"your-secure-password"
  }'

# Response includes the token (save it securely)
# {"token":"snipo_...",...}

# 2. Use API token for all operations (no password needed)
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/snippets \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <api-token>"

# 3. Delete token (password required for security)
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8080/api/v1/tokens/1 \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"password":"your-secure-password"}'
```

**Benefits:**
- No login friction for trusted environments
- Easy access for reading and managing snippets
- **Strong security for API token operations** (password always required)
- Protection against unauthorized token creation/deletion
- Defense-in-depth: even if session is compromised, tokens are protected
- Suitable for personal networks, VPNs, and auth proxy deployments
- Balances convenience with security

### Mode 3: Authentication Completely Disabled

⚠️ **CRITICAL SECURITY CONSIDERATION**

**Disable all authentication via environment variable.**

```bash
SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true
# Password variables not required when auth is disabled
```

**Security characteristics:**
- Web UI access:  No authentication
- All API operations:  No authentication
- Token creation:  **No password verification** (⚠️ bypassed)
- Token deletion:  **No password verification** (⚠️ bypassed)
- Settings changes:  No authentication
- Admin operations:  No authentication

**Critical Difference from Mode 2:**
- Mode 2: Password **still required** for token operations
- Mode 3: Password requirement **completely bypassed**
- Use Mode 3 only when external authentication handles all access control
**Use ONLY when:**

1. **Behind Authentication Proxy** - When using external authentication layers:
   - [Authelia](https://www.authelia.com/)
   - [OAuth2 Proxy](https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/)
   - [Cloudflare Access](https://www.cloudflare.com/products/zero-trust/access/)
   - NGINX with `auth_request`
   - Traefik with ForwardAuth
   - etc.

2. **Isolated Local Environment** - Completely offline, no network access

3. **Development/Testing** - Local development only, never in production

**Configuration:**

```bash
# In .env or environment
SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true

# Password variables are ignored when auth is disabled
# SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD not required
# SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH not required
```

**Security Implications:**

- All authentication checks are bypassed
- No login required
- All API endpoints are accessible without credentials
- No rate limiting on authentication
- **Complete trust** in external authentication layer
- Direct exposure to internet is **extremely dangerous**

### Deployment Examples

**Example 1: Docker with Authelia**

```yaml
services:
  authelia:
    image: authelia/authelia:latest
    volumes:
      - ./authelia-config:/config
    networks:
      - auth-network

  snipo:
    image: ghcr.io/mohamedelashri/snipo:latest
    environment:
      - SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true  # Auth handled by Authelia
    networks:
      - auth-network
    # Snipo is NOT exposed directly to internet

  nginx:
    image: nginx:alpine
    ports:
      - "443:443"
    volumes:
      - ./nginx.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf
    networks:
      - auth-network
```

**Example 2: Nginx with auth_request**

```nginx
location /auth {
    internal;
    proxy_pass http://authelia:9091/api/verify;
    proxy_set_header X-Original-URL $scheme://$http_host$request_uri;
}

location / {
    auth_request /auth;
    proxy_pass http://snipo:8080;
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
}
```

### Security Checklist for Disabled Auth

When using `SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true`, verify:

- [ ] External authentication layer is properly configured
- [ ] Snipo is **NOT** directly accessible from the internet
- [ ] All traffic passes through authentication proxy
- [ ] Authentication proxy is configured with strict policies
- [ ] Network isolation is in place (Docker networks, VPNs)
- [ ] Logs are monitored for unauthorized access attempts
- [ ] Backup authentication layer exists (defense in depth)
- [ ] Regular security audits of authentication setup

### Reverting to Standard Authentication

To re-enable authentication:

```bash
# 1. Remove or set to false
SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=false
# or just remove the variable entirely

# 2. Set password
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH=$argon2id$...
# or
SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD=your-secure-password

# 3. Restart
docker compose restart snipo
```

### Reverse Proxy Configuration

If deploying behind a reverse proxy:

1. Set `SNIPO_TRUST_PROXY=true` to trust `X-Forwarded-For` headers
2. Configure your proxy to set proper headers:

**Nginx example:**
```nginx
location / {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
}
```

**Traefik example:**
```yaml
http:
  middlewares:
    secure-headers:
      headers:
        forceSTSHeader: true
        stsSeconds: 31536000
```

### Docker Security

The Docker image runs as non-root user (`snipo`, UID 1000):

```yaml
services:
  snipo:
    image: ghcr.io/mohamedelashri/snipo:latest
    security_opt:
      - no-new-privileges:true
    read_only: true
    tmpfs:
      - /tmp
    volumes:
      - snipo_data:/data
```

## Known Limitations

### CSP Relaxations
The Content Security Policy includes:
- `'unsafe-inline'` for styles (required for dynamic styling)
- `'unsafe-eval'` for scripts (required for Alpine.js)

These are necessary for the current frontend stack but reduce XSS protection. The plan is to migrate to a more secure frontend stack in the future.

### Single-User Model
- No role-based access control
- All authenticated users have full access
- Password changes are in-memory only (reset on restart)

## Dependency Management

### Go Dependencies
All dependencies are vendored and version-pinned in `go.mod`:

| Package | Version | Purpose |
|---------|---------|---------|
| `go-chi/chi` | v5.1.0 | HTTP router |
| `golang.org/x/crypto` | v0.28.0 | Argon2id password hashing |
| `modernc.org/sqlite` | v1.33.1 | Pure-Go SQLite driver |
| `aws-sdk-go-v2` | v1.40.1 | S3 backup support |

### Frontend Dependencies (Vendored)
All frontend assets are served locally from `/static/vendor/`:

| Library | Version | File |
|---------|---------|------|
| Alpine.js | 3.x | `alpine.min.js` |
| htmx | 2.x | `htmx.min.js` |
| Ace Editor | 5.x | `ace.js` |
| Prism.js | 1.x | `prism.min.js` |
| Pico CSS | 2.x | `pico.min.css` |
| Fira Code | - | `FiraCode-*.woff2` |

### Updating Dependencies

**Go dependencies:**
```bash
# Check for updates
go list -u -m all

# Update all dependencies
go get -u ./...
go mod tidy

# Update specific package
go get -u golang.org/x/crypto@latest
```

**Frontend dependencies:**
Download new versions and replace files in `internal/web/static/vendor/`:

```bash
# Example: Update Alpine.js
curl -o internal/web/static/vendor/js/alpine.min.js \
  https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/alpinejs@3/dist/cdn.min.js
```

## Security Checklist

### Standard Deployment
- [ ] Use hashed password (`SNIPO_MASTER_PASSWORD_HASH`) instead of plain text
- [ ] Set strong master password (12+ characters, mixed case, numbers, symbols)
- [ ] Generate random session secret with `openssl rand -hex 32`
- [ ] Configure rate limiting appropriately
- [ ] Use HTTPS in production (via reverse proxy)
- [ ] Set `SNIPO_TRUST_PROXY=false` unless behind trusted proxy
- [ ] Restrict network access (firewall/VPN)
- [ ] Protect config files with proper permissions (`chmod 600 .env`)
- [ ] Use secrets management in production (Docker Secrets, Vault, etc.)
- [ ] Regular backups with encryption enabled
- [ ] Keep dependencies updated

### When Using Disabled Auth (`SNIPO_DISABLE_AUTH=true`)
- [ ] Authentication proxy is properly configured and tested
- [ ] Snipo is NOT directly accessible from internet
- [ ] Network isolation is enforced (Docker networks, firewalls)
- [ ] All traffic must pass through authentication layer
- [ ] Monitoring and logging are in place
- [ ] Regular security audits of authentication setup
- [ ] Understand and accept the security implications

## Reporting Security Issues

If you discover a security vulnerability, please report it privately via GitHub Security Advisories or email. Do not create public issues for security vulnerabilities.
